# Lecture on Mining / Consensus

## Intro

Steve is Stuck in Cheyenne - so ...  I am stepping in for this.
My background is on the technical side ... `Thesis*` - 3rd generation consensus 
stuff, Ethereum contributor.

## How Proof of Work works.

1. Create the Merkle hash of the block.  This grantees integrity within a block.
2. Set the Nonce for the block to 0.
3. Hash the block (sha1, Keack256 or other hash)
4. See if it satisfies the "criteria" - Example.
5. If "good" - then done, else
	- Nonce = Nonce + 1
	- Loop back to (3) above.

## How Proof of Stake Works creates consensus.

By using up time and work - it spends $ and hardware - taking time.  Anybody that want's to fake will have
to do this.  Cost is millions an hour.

## Bad Data is still bad data.

Can we input bad data.  Yes... but the data becomes "checkable".  Example of supply chain with aircraft parts.

## Limitations on Bad Data.

Accounting and bad data.

## Immutable Data.

Why is the data immutable.  Block after block with links over time as hashes.

## Shared Data.

Sharing the data.  How that works.

## Proof of Stake (Proof-of-Steak)

Why Proof of Stake - security v.s. speed.

What is a side-chain.

What is sharding.

## Environmental Considerations / Performance Considerations

PoW is an environmental and performance disaster.  Crypto Kitties.

## Ethereum v.2.0.0 announcement

Eth will require a 32 Eth stake.  Eth burnt on main Eth 1.x net, then minted on Eth2.0 net - in an Escrow account.

## Ripple/Thesis (Other Consensus Algorithms)

3rd generation Byzantine Generals Solution - Honey Badger BGS.  Overview of how it works.

## Non-Blockchain Consensus

Fast proof of authority data.




